ACTUAL DESIGN DOC
This is Starmaze.  Expect eights.

LEVELS
There are eight room-clusters, two of which are secret.  Each cluster is maybe
20 rooms, to throw out a starting number.

Start, where you begin, and End, where you are trying to reach.  To get to
End, you have to go through the four Elemental clusters, which are of course
Water, Earth, Air and Flame.  Along the way you may find a way to get into the
two secret clusters, Star and Soul.

Each cluster has it's own themes, colors, decorations, and enemies.  As you
conquor each cluster, you gain access to a new realm of Power.  Once you've
conquored the four Elemental clusters, you get access to End.

The layout of clusters is vaguely radial; Start lies in the middle of the four
Elemental clusters, with Star above and Soul below.  These directions are
essentially meaningless of course, but it's how I think of it.  End has no
direction, it is "inward".

Each room is an area which leads to one to five other rooms, average maybe
2.5.  They form a more or less random network around the center of the
cluster.  There is one path placed at random in each cluster to one of the
adjacant clusters.  All paths are bidirectional.  Each cluster has 8 rooms in
it, which gives us 64 rooms total.  The rooms can be bigger than I originally
intended, heh.

On each door is a glyph showing which room it leads to.  It is binary, in the
shape of three lines at 60 degree angles, forming a star.  No lines is 000, a
horizontal line is 001, a line sloping up-right is 010, a line sloping
down-right is 100.  The start room of each cluster is 000, the end is 111.
The color of the lines and door are different depending on which cluster it
leads to.

There is a core room in Start, which has doors to each of the clusters.
Tentatively, to open Star and Soul, you have to find the doors to them in each
of the Elemental clusters and hit them with the appropriate element, at which
point the door in the Start core room will open.  Or perhaps there will now
and then appear a big Inner Demon-like monster, who you fight in a dream, and
when you defeat it you open one of the gates.

Each cluster has it's own theme, colors, backgrounds, music, enemies.  There
are subtle but noticable signs about whether you're getting closer to or
further from the core room.  Changes in brightness, pattern of background,
difficulty and type of enemies.

Each core room has a big boss you must defeat, after which you gain the Power
of that Element.

Rooms are built semi-randomly.  There are a number of basic shapes, which are
then decorated with features --platforms, enemies, wheels, traps, teleporters,
other secret things.  Each room should be able to be defeated in maybe 5
minutes.  Defeated means, roughly, killing any enemies and solving any simple
puzzles.

Hazards and features of rooms include: Fan, Flame-spurt, ice-spurt, big
spikes, little spikes, in-out spikes, goo, ice, lava, bounceres,
fan-suckers/blowers, moving platforms

Earth = green
Water = deep blue
Air = Light blue
Flame = Red
Start = Grey
End = Indigo
Star Secret = Silver-sparks
Soul Secret = Gold-sparks (or rainbow)

Thing is, once you've got End, you've beaten the game.  There may be an
Ex-play mode, where you play through again with all the weapons and such,
against harder enemies.  That'd be cool.  If we can also scale the power of
weapons similarly as you re-acquire them, we might be able to go on ad
infinitum.

If you get both Star and Soul, and maybe do some other special things, it may
open a path to a new uber-secret, Power.  I don't think Power will actually
have an element in it, but...  Hmm, maybe it'll lead to a special ending after
you beat End, where you have to go through an uber-cluster (Final) with the End
Power.


PLAYER
The player is represented by a circle with a four-pointed star around it; the
circle represents the actual bounding box and such.  The star rotates as the
player moves left and right, showing movement.

The player has a limited amount of life and energy.  You regain both slowly.
Destroyed enemies will drop things that will boost one or the other or both,
or have a different effect.  Maybe not boost actual amount, but charge rate?

As you conquor each room-cluster, you gain it's Power.  Each Elemental Power
makes one of the points of the star light up with the appropriate color,
trailing particles and generally looking cool.  Star and Soul are shown as a
hail of appropriately colored sparks every time the player moves.
Start... I'm not sure how Start is shown; perhaps by a doubling of the
core-circle.  Or the initial cross of power; that works.  End, I have no clue,
but it should change your overall appearance for the better.


POWER
There are eight Powers, one for each room-cluster.  Each Power has four
Aspects: close attack, far attack, defend, and jump.

You may or may not be able to combine the Aspects, to produce eight abilities
per Power: close/far attack, defend/jump, either attack/defend, either
attack/jump.

Each Power works in different ways, doing different things, with different
advantages and disadvantages.  Most of this is yet to be determined, but none
should be definitively better than the others.

Switching powers takes time and energy.

Does each power have a strength level, and you grow stronger the more powers
you have?  I like that, it makes them Always Useful.

Start: Balance
 Close attack: A circular burst of 8 small, short-range bullets
 Far attack: A single long-range bullet
 Jump: Just a basic jump
 Defend: All-around shield, reduces damage taken to 1/4


Earth: Tank
 Close attack: Big spike stabs out of the ground in front of you, holds target
briefly
 Far attack: Launches a rock that rolls, breaks when it hits something
 Jump: Grappling hook!
 Defend: Perfect defense, but you must be on the ground and it holds you motionless

Air: Evasion
 Close attack: LIGHTNING!
 Far attack: Whirlwind sprint, has a cool-down
 Jump: Lofts you high in the air, makes you fall more slowly
 Defend: Makes you invisible and intangible for a brief moment (mist)

Water: Utility (short-range rush?)
 Close attack: Burst of ice that freezes anything it touches
 Far attack: Slow, powerful, big AOE tidal-wave, knockback
 Jump: A column of ice lifts you into the air, lasts briefly
 Defend: Repels things

Flame: Damage (long-range artillery?)
 Close attack: Small fireballs that bounce along the ground, Mario-like (DOT?)
 Far attack: Launches a big mortar-like fireball that explodes on impact
 Jump: Jets you up, leaving fire behind you.
 Defend: Forms a wall of magma in front of you which slowly cools, then breaks


Star: Fierce attack
 Close attack: Powerful energy-wave just in front of you
 Far attack: Weaker energy-wave, but goes through walls
 Jump: Teleports you through intervening space
 Defend: A circle of stars around you that hurt anything that touches you

Soul: Confusion
 Close attack: Powerful repel-burst all around you
 Far attack: Confusion; enemies hit work for you briefly
 Jump: Flight, up and forward
 Defend: You are invisible but not intangible, lasts a while.


End: Death
 Close attack: Touch of death.  Slow, lots of energy.
 Far attack: Summon a reaper-helper?
 Jump: Rising energy blast, hurts you too a little
 Defend: You are briefly one-touch-kill invincible; takes lots of energy

Using any Aspect of a Power consumes the player's energy.  This energy
regenerates slowly.  As the player gains more Aspects, the rate of
regeneration increases by n^2, and the max amount of energy increases by n*c.
So 1 aspect means 1 point per second, 100 max energy.   (1%)
2 ->  4 points regen, 200 max   (2%)
3 ->  9 points regen, 300 max   (3%)
4 -> 16 points regen, 400 max   (4%)
5 -> 25 points regen, 500 max   (5%)
6 -> 36 points regen, 600 max   (6%)
7 -> 49 points regen, 700 max   (7%)
8 -> 64 points regen, 800 max   (8%)

Of course, the actual values are probably gonna be tweaked like hell, but it'd
be nice if the general trend was about like this.  Maybe nlogn instead of n^2?


GRAPHICS
There should be a colored border around the screen that changes color to
convey information.  Work the GUI more...



ENEMIES
Enemies are semi-random.  They get more difficult depending on how awesome you
are and how close you are to the core room of the cluster.

Graphics for enemies are basically any nifty display-hack I can do quickly and
draw moving around on the screen.  Each cluster will have it's own types of
enemies with their own powers.

Enemies MIGHT evolve genetically depending on how well they do against you, or
they might just get deterministically harder.

Powers enemies could have:
Blocking
Jump-attack
Grappel-hook
Pull
Repel
Climb-on-ceiling/wall
Fog
Teleport
Brief invisibility
Displacement/mirror image
Doppelgangers, a la Stentor
Bouncing, a la Mr. Turniphead (Howl's Moving Castle)

Enemies in each cluster are more vulnerable to their opposite element, and
less to their own element.  Level design should reflect this, making the
puzzles harder to solve with the opposite element.  Moo hoo ha ha.


POWERUPS
Enemies drop a variety of powerups.  The simplest restore life, energy, or
both.  Other ones could be improved energy regen, invincibility, uber-speed,
gain some Power for a brief time, other fun things.  

The exact power, drop rate, and duration of such things is subject to
play-testing, of course.



NOTES
Cool effects I may have to use:
A barrier that slows you down, setting your velocity to 0 but not changing
your position
Gravity is dependant on altitude?




(OLD) VAGUE IDEAS AND SCHEMINGS 
Another platformer game I call Starmaze.
This game is abstract and mysterious.  All the graphics are
vector-based, quite possibly made from 3D panels...  All swirly and
strange.  Platforms change color as you land on them, lines trail off
behind moving things, the background is an abstract swirling pattern
that may or may not convey useful information if you read it right.
Stuff like that.

The enemies are also abstract, ever-changing patterns.  Quite possibly
some sort of fractal that gets fed their position and time as a
parameter, making them never the same twice.  

The rooms and graphics should be procedurally generated.  It may be
some kind of maze or laberynth, or even the original Starmaze.

There may be puzzles of varying sorts.  What kind I don't know.

You get a variety of neat weapons useful in various ways.  Try to keep
each simple but unique in function.  One should ideally be able to use
several weapons together in unique ways...

The enemies learn and evolve, depending on how well they fare against
you?  Perhaps...


Okay, we need a real design document.  Let there be evil enemies, 
puzzles with perhaps many solutions, nifty weapons, labrynthine mazes, 
many secrets...

Hmm.  Okay, real requirements now...
There shall be nifty graphics.  I dunno about OpenGL, but there's gotta 
be some way to make 2d vector graphics look awesome.  Lines that flash 
and sequence, trailing echos behind them...

Well, particles can be done, if nothing else.

We can also find nice display-hack-y algorithms for the background.  
Hypnotic things.  Spectrum analyzers for the music.  Whirlpools and 
raindrops.  Fractal-trees.

Most or all graphics should be vector-based.  If enemies and objects can 
be ever-morphing abstractions generated procedurally, without TOO much 
overhead, that'd be real keen.  The player, I'm not sure about...  
Something cool-looking and not too complicated, but distinctive and, 
well, heroic.


Level design... now, THIS is something I'm really not sure about.  It'd 
be nice if levels were generated procedurally too, off the Starmaze or 
something fun like that, but that really doesn't leave a lot of room for 
secrets and such.

Multiple paths sounds like a good idea...

I DO like the idea of individual rooms, where in each room you face 
challenges based on how well you defeated the challenges before.  
Especially since it could almost go on eternally (though that seems 
boring, with no final goal).

Hmmm... maybe the rooms are, like Realms, made of certain features and 
descriptions but otherwise random?  That has potential.
Size, full-o-platforms-ness, other features like lava/spikes/ropes, 
types of monsters, setting/colors/background, gas, wind, pipes full of 
goo, water, moving platforms/constellations a la Inner Space,

Hmmm, a maze.  But then backtracking becomes important, so.  It becomes 
a network of some kind or another, perhaps.  There IS a distinct 
forward, and dead-ends either lead to something or are not very long.  
Cycles are okay.  It probably shouldn't be directed, in the general 
case, though one-way doors may exist (and be clearly marked).



The hero is a circle with a triangle drawn around it, overlapping with the
floor where necessary.  This makes it more than just a circle, letting
movement and such be apparent while still having one face in contact with the
ground and being simple.

I need: Arbitrary line representation/drawing, translation and rotation of
points in space, some non-sprite abstraction for image-drawing,



NEW IDEAS (2014)
This is actually surprisingly solid, though I'd probably move the pus-things-
away-power to Air.  It can also be a little more physics-y than I originally intended,
I think.

Also, why not set it in the real Starmaze?  A 9 dimensional hypercube...  The evocative names of rooms
for it are worth it alone, to an extent.

Or some other shape, perhaps a 5 dimensional hypercube or such.  Something to think about ad explore, at
least.  Maybe an octohedron instead of a cube.

To unlock Soul and Star, you must go to each of the previous boss rooms and use each element, once you
have them all.  The boss rooms should have ominous anticipatory music and messages.  Doing this makes
asuper-boss appear in each of the room (souped up versions of the defeated bosses prolly) and once you
defeat them all, it opens the gate.

Either that or you have to find and defeat roaming bosses such as Stalker and Eliminiator.  I like that
idea too.

Hell, both!
